Hey YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to
the channel. I'd like to introduce you
guys to Windsucks. Imagine a world where
you could click one thing and all of
your optimizations are done in Windows.
Your graphics drivers are debloed and
all your graphics settings are done and
even Windows is debloed and just
everything is set up in one click.
That's what Windsucks achieves.
Something I've wanted to do for about 6
years and I have procrastinated.
Finally, it is here after about a month
of blood, sweat, and tears. I'd like to
give a big shout out to my community,
especially Zo and Fo. You guys have been
a real big help. If you guys want to
check them out, they're underneath the
contributors. Now, guys, anybody can use
this. You can be on an old install, you
can be on a fresh install, you can be on
Home Pro, Enterprise Server, IoT, you
can be on a Microsoft account or a local
account and everything will work
flawlessly. Getting things to stick and
settings to stick and scripts to work
properly on Microsoft accounts are quite
frustrating. I've managed to achieve
that. Also, it doesn't matter, guys. If
you have a desktop machine and you have
a dedicated Intel graphics card, that's
covered. Nvidia graphics card, that's
covered. AMD graphics card, that's
covered. Yes, I went out of my way to
buy an Intel and AMD card just to
automate everything. If you are on a
laptop and you want to use this and you
just have an iGPU or even just a desktop
with an iGPU, I've got you covered
there. The graphics debloat and import
settings will work for an AMD's iGPU and
an Intel's iGPUp. Even if you're on a
laptop and you have a dedicated card and
then an iGPU or even just an iGPU, I've
got you covered here. The one-click
guide is it. Firstly, if you haven't
done this before, we'll need to tell
Windows to allow scripts. So, let's type
in scripts in your search. Click that.
It'll take you to this setting here.
Here, make sure that's on. If you're on
Windows 10, you may need to click on and
then apply. So, now we can run scripts.
There's two ways to do this. We could
either go code and download the whole
thing or we could use the IWR. To use
the IWR, we would just simply click here
to copy. Then we would search PowerShell
as administrator. You can use terminal
as well.
Allow admin. And then we would simply
paste and press enter in here to
download the file and run it that way.
Just extract all.
Okay.
Go into the files folder. You'll need to
right click, show more options,
properties, and you'll have to unblock
this file.
Then you can right click and run with
PowerShell. Now, for this video and
simplicity sake, I'm going to use the
IWR because it's much easier. If you
guys are really unsure and you're
worried that there could be a virus or
you want to read the code, you want to
understand what's done with the IWR, you
can grab the website and simply go
straight to it. You can have a read over
the code or you could download it this
way, too, if you are interested.
Or you could simply go into files
in sucks and you could read the code
there. There is nothing malicious in it
and I've never put anything malicious in
any of my code. All notes are included
in the code too. So if you want to
understand what's going on, there are
comments for absolutely everything. All
right, let's use the IWL. So we've
copied the IWL. We've pasted it in a
PowerShell or terminal window as
administrator. Then we press enter.
It's going to download 7zip because we
need sevenzip to extract certain files.
It's currently installing all of the C++
packages that you will need for certain
games and programs. That's directly from
the Microsoft um website download. 7zip
is directly from the sevenzip download.
It is installing display driver
uninstaller and it is installing Chrome.
And the reason why it installs Chrome is
Chrome is the most common used web
browser and we'll be uninstalling Edge.
So, I can't leave you guys without a web
browser. It also updates and installs
DirectX. It gets the download directly
from the service.
And now it's telling us it's going to
restart. So what it's going to do here
is actually boot us into safe mode and
auto run DDU display driver uninstaller
for us. So it's going to remove real
audio, sound blaster audio, AMD graphics
card drivers, Intel graphics card
drivers, and Nvidia card graphics
drivers. It will also import some of the
defender settings because those are only
able to be done through safe mode if you
want to do it as a script. This may take
a little while here while it's trying to
boot into safe mode. It's technically
because the def import defender settings
script is already running in the
background. As you can see here now,
it's actually running DDU for us
automated. And this will also take care
if you have iGPU drivers too. So it will
remove all sound drivers and all GPU
drivers whether it be a dedicated
graphics card or an iGPU.
Now it's going to boot us into normal
mode and we'll open up the step two
script is currently importing store
settings.
Ignore that the store opened. It needs
to open to actually import some settings
especially on Microsoft accounts. Now
it's going to actually start importing
all of the window settings and that
includes your immersive control panel
settings and control panel settings. I
will show you guys at the end of the
video all the settings that are getting
changed. This will take a little while.
So, if ever looks like it's getting
stuck, don't be afraid to check task
manager and check CPU usage. I'll show
you that in a little bit. If you have an
older CPU, this may take longer than it
has for me.
I'm going to click the PowerShell window
here just so we can see the little
flashing thing
so we know it's working and doing its
thing.
That's removing all those uh UWP apps
that come with Windows. I do keep Paint,
Notepad, Photos, and a bunch of um
encoder stuff for certain video editing
and recording programs, but everything
else gets removed. Now, it's removing
UWP features. This stuff like HelloFace
and a whole bunch of other rubbish you
do not need. Whatever it looks like at
this stage, it's taking quite a while.
Don't be afraid to open task manager.
You can press control shift escape and
bring up task manager here
and we'll have a look at the CPU usage.
As you can see, the Windows modules
install worker is doing its thing.
Unfortunately, this is quite slow when
it comes to this. So, you just sort of
have to wait it out. If at any point
this script breaks for you because maybe
the Windows modules install worker got
scuffed, it is fine. If you want to
restart the PC, open your temp folder,
Windows key r,
and rer rerun step one script, which
will be in your temp folder.
Most of you shouldn't have to do that,
but if it's a really old install and the
Windows module installer got a little
bit scuffed, I have seen that happen
before. Most of you will just be able to
let this run and do its thing. Be
patient with it and give it some time.
Now, it's just removing legacy apps like
One Drive, remote desktop connection,
things like that you don't need. And now
we get to the fun part. So, we need to
choose what graphics card we're using.
Are they Nvidia, AMD, Intel, or Skip?
Skip is maybe if you um have a dedic
like a laptop and you don't need the
iGPU or something like that. Most of you
will not use skip. I'm going to show you
guys all the options here. Now,
originally I had the script where it
would automatically download the latest
driver. I've decided that is not the
best idea to go about things because
sometimes the vendor can bring out a
brand new driver and there's some issues
with it. So, I think it's better if we
manually select the driver. That way you
can debloat any driver and do all the
driver settings for any driver that you
want. So, I'll show you all three and
I'll al show you it on a laptop too with
an iGPU. But for now, let's do the
Nvidia one because I have an Nvidia
graphics card in my my PC. So, if you
can't type anything, just click the top
of the window here. Press one on the
keyboard and then press enter on the
keyboard. Now, it says download Nvidia
GPU driver. This is something that you
need to do. So, just wait a little bit.
It will open up Chrome. Just press don't
sign in. I've got a 50 series. I'll be
using 591.86 cuz I have no issues with
that driver. Now click view and
download. Wait for the driver to
download. Okay, it's finished
downloading. You can actually close
Chrome now. If you do not close Chrome,
it won't bring you to the next step. So
close Chrome and just wait a little bit.
Now the script is going to want to know
where is the driver that you downloaded.
Click on downloads and then click the
driver that you just downloaded.
What's happening here is the script is
actually debloating the Nvidia driver
exactly like what NVC clean install
does. Then it's going to install the
driver for us without all the bloat and
then start to import the settings. So
all your NVIDIA control panel settings
will be done and everything else
possible that you can do in the video
control panel. This may take some time.
So just be patient.
Okay. Whole bunch of stuff is open
because this is stuff I cannot automate.
So as an example, you want to set your
sound resolution, refresh rate, primary
display. So you only you know this for
your system because everyone has a
different sound device. So I'm going to
go to recording. I've only got one
microphone USB device. So that's easy
for me. I'll go to playback. I'm using
optical audio. I'm going to disable
everything else that I do not need. I'm
going to hide it just to make my life
nice and easy and clean. I'll press
okay. Now as far as display, we need to
change our resolution and refresh rate.
So, we can quite easily do this by if
you have an Intel and AMD graphics card,
this is the easiest way to do it. Go to
advanced display. We'll set our refresh
rate here and our resolution
right here. Make sure we're running at
the native resolution and the max
refresh rate. Some of you also may need
to set a layout for your display.
And if you've got an Nvidia card and you
want to use higher bit color, you can do
that simply in here. We will just go to
change resolution. We'll change our
display refresh rate. And if you want to
use higher bit rate color, do it here.
It's important that you do it here
because that way it turns off Windows
managing your color afterwards. And so
we press apply. And yes, that's all we
need to do there. Now we're back at the
script. We have to press enter to
continue once we've done that. It's
importing the power plan resolution
doing a disc cleanup restore point and
it's restarting. And we are done. We
just have to wait for it to restart.
Now, Windows will say it's actually
updating. What it's really done here is
it's removing some of the bloat. So, the
UWP features and the legacy features,
Windows kind of needs to do like a
refresh of itself to remove those. So,
it will look like it's updating Windows,
but essentially it's actually not
updating. It's just removing some
features.
And there we have it, a nice clean
Windows where all the settings are done
and imported for absolutely everything.
And I'll show you guys that at a little
bit detail later. Now, I want to redo
this script and show you guys it for an
Intel graphics card and an AMD dedicated
graphics card. Going to press two for
AMD. Now, it says download your AMD GPU
driver. It'll open up Google Chrome with
the right web page to download your
drivers. You'll have to go in and select
your graphics card. So, for me, I'm
using an RX 5070. I'll be under Vega. A
lot of you guys will be using some of
the newer cards. And don't worry, I've
made sure this script works on all
cards. I've had a lot of guys test this
for me. Windows 11 64-bit edition. One
little pro tip with AMD drivers. Make
sure it's WHQL recommended. Go ahead and
download that. It's finished
downloading. Now, we can close Chrome.
So, the script goes to the next step.
It'll say select downloaded driver. The
script needs to know where the driver
file is. We'll go to downloads. We'll
select the driver, then press open. Now,
it's going to extract and debloat the
driver and import our driver settings
for us and install it.
I've added this time out here simply
because some of the older graphics
cards, they have this little timeout
thing where the driver kind of bugs and
times out after you install it with
Windows. A lot of you have AMD graphics
cards, you probably understand what I'm
talking about. So, you need just need to
be patient and wait here. So this
debloat is very similar to what Radiant
Software Slimmer does. It just does a
little bit more in depth and it goes a
little bit extra above and beyond, but I
will show you guys the before and after
later. So instead of using a program
like NV Clean Install or Radian Software
Slimmer with a whole bunch of downloads
and apps that you don't need any of that
can all just be done in a script. Now
it's actually importing the settings. We
waited for that driver timeout that can
sometimes happen on older AMD graphics
cards or have seen it on happen on some
newer graphics cards. It's basically
opening the AMD control panel and
closing it so it can import the settings
properly.
Now, we're at this stage. So, we're
going to have to select our sound
devices, set your max refresh rate in
your native resolution, and you can
close this. Click on the PowerShell
window. Press enter. Continue to the
next stage. And it's going to simply
just go through that stage just as you
saw it before. AMD free sync. You will
need to toggle it off if you don't use
it in here. If you don't want your frame
rate synced with your monitor's refresh
rate, turn it off. I've plugged in my
Intel ARC graphics card, which I believe
is a 380 or press three and then enter.
Take us to the Intel download web page
and it'll show all the results. So, if
you've got an ARC dedicated graphics
card here, you select that. If you've
got an iGPU, select that. IGPU, select
that. We have an AR card, so I'm going
to select this one. When it's finished
downloading, we actually need to close
Chrome. So, the script can continue. Now
the script wants to know where is the
downloaded driver. We'll go to
downloads. We'll select the driver and
then press open. Once again, it's going
to debloat the driver, install the
driver, and import all the driver
settings. I have had this tested on
multiple Intel cards from the guys in
Discord, so everything should work
flawlessly. It may take a little while,
so just give it some time. Their
installer is much better than AMD, but
it is still a little bit timeconuming
sometimes.
Okay, we're at the stage where we need
to change our sound device. Do that
here. Showed you guys all that before.
Same again, change your native
resolution, your max refresh rate, and
we'll press enter to continue. The
script will go do its thing again. Once
again, just like with AMD, it was
something I was unable to automate. If
you don't want your refresh rate sync to
your frames, you go ahead and turn off
variable refresh rate here. Few more
things I need to show you guys. What if
you want to go on a different graphics
driver and you want to have the graphics
driver debloed and all your settings
redone again? I've got you covered. We
download the pack. We'll extract the
pack and we'll open the pack. We'll run
allow scripts just so it unblocks all
the files for us. We don't actually need
to unblock them. You go to files and
then graphics. I've got you covered here
with those options. So, say we wanted to
run display driver uninstall and have it
completely automated and remove
absolutely everything including all
graphics drivers and all audio. We use
DDU auto. Let's say that you have
multiple graphics cards, but you just
want to remove, you know, one type of
graphics um card driver. You use your
DDU manual. And let's say you want to do
the graphics driver settings again with
the driver. You'd run graphics driver.
So, what I'll do here is I'll run both
just to show you guys how they work. So,
let's use DD manual first. Just run with
PowerShell. Once again, be patient when
it goes into safe mode. It's just how it
is when you try to get run the script in
safe mode. Takes a little bit of time.
Okay, we're in safe mode and DDO has
opened for us. But because we used the
manual DDU, say that you had an AMD
graphics card and an Nvidia graphics
card, but you only wanted to remove the
AMD graphics card. Select GPU, AMD, or
whatever you want, and press clean and
restart, and it will actually just
reboot us back to normal mode because
the PowerShell script has already turned
off the toggle for safe boot. So, this
can be really useful. Let's say that you
wanted to pick and choose what if you
have say you have a laptop with a
dedicated graphics card um and an iGPU
as well and you need to sort of pick and
choose which driver on which you've got
sort of all the options covered. Now
what about DDU auto? DDU auto is the
same process that Winds does. So it's
just going to go into safe mode and
remove everything for for you. DD auto.
Run DD auto. That's going to do the same
process, but do it automatically for us
and remove realtech, Sound Blaster, AMD,
Intel, and Nvidia. Okay. And let's say
we didn't want to run through the whole
script at all. We just ran through DDU
and we want to get to get on a different
driver or a newer driver, but we wanted
it all debloed for us. And we wanted
just all the graphics drivers settings
done. We just run graphics driver. So
after using DDU, whichever method you
prefer, go ahead and run graphics
driver, select whatever card we use and
follow through the same process. Now
guys, I need to get you covered for
specifically laptops because laptops
have an iGPU in them. And if you don't
have the iGPU driver installed, usually
you cannot set the max refresh rate for
the native display that comes with the
laptop. Now, this is my older son's
laptop. I just ran through the script
and it has a dedicated GTX 3060 in it.
But here's the issue. If I go to display
and advanced display, we we have an
unknown here. And if I go to advanced
display to change the refresh rate, I'm
unable to. So, we need to install the
iGPU drivers. So, to do that, once you
run through the script on a laptop and
you've got a dedicated graphics card and
an iGPU, we'll need to install the iGPU
drivers. So, I've downloaded Windox on
the desktop here. Going to go ahead and
open it. I'll open the graphics driver
one. This is my oldest son's laptop and
he has a 3060 with a dedicated Intel
iGPU. So, we need the in dedicated Intel
iGPU driver so we can actually set our
max refresh rate for the native display
that's built into the laptop. Okay, so I
need to select Intel because we're going
to be installing the Intel iGPU driver
three and then enter. Once again, going
to be download Intel GPU driver. Okay,
so this takes us to the main page. Now,
because we're this is an iGPU, we need
to select an iGPU driver. So, from
memory, I'm just going to triple check
it is a 127700H.
So, that'll be under the 12th gen
category of iGPU drivers. So, I'll hit
download right here. We wait for it to
finish downloading. So, we close Chrome.
Now, it says select downloaded driver.
So, we're going to select the downloaded
driver. We go to downloads. We select
the driver, then we'll hit open. Okay,
once again, we've got the option to set
our sound devices. Now, the Nvidia
control panel popped up, but we don't
need to play with that one. We disable
and enable what we need for sounds, and
we close that. We come into advanced
display, and now we can actually set our
refresh rate. So, now we actually have
access to 144 hertz because we've
installed the iGPU driver. Okay, here we
are on my son, my youngest son's laptop
and I've run through the whole script.
It has a dedicated 3060 Ti and an AMD
iGPU. As you can see here, once again,
if we go to display and advanced
display, uh it says unknown here. Okay,
this CPU that has an iGPU is a 6800H
with Radian graphics. So, we're going to
select number two and then enter. Once
again, it's going to take us to the web
page for the AMD graphics download page.
So, here it's a little bit different. We
actually need to select processors.
Then, for my youngest son's laptop, it
would be under Ryzen and then 6000
series and it is a 6800H.
So, we'll click on that and hit submit.
So that might be a little difficult for
some of you to find out what driver you
have, but once you figure it out, it
should be easy. And then I just go ahead
and download the driver here. Right, the
driver's finished downloading. Close
Chrome. So it takes us to the next. So
now when to select the downloaded
driver, we'll go to downloads. We'll
select the driver and hit open. So now
the PowerShell script knows where the
driver is. And it's going to go through
the same process. It's going to debloat
the driver. It's going to install the
driver and import all the driver
settings. Ignore the Nvidia control
panel with the uh iGPU. We actually need
to change our refresh rate right here.
So now we have full access to 165
refresh rate, which is great cuz we
actually have the iGPU driver installed.
All right, guys. Here's a fresh install
of Windows 10. Now, I know 99% of you
guys aren't using Windows 10 anymore.
But I wanted to at least add support for
the few of you guys out there that are
diehard Windows 10 fans. We're on the
GitHub here. I'm going to search
scripts. Just quickly show you guys what
it looks like when you run it on Windows
10. And I did add Windows 10 support. We
have to have this turned on. Then apply.
We'll copy that IWR. We'll run
PowerShell as administrator. We'll paste
that in the PowerShell and press enter.
Same process and everything is
compatible.
And here it is a really nice clean
Windows 10. Everything debloed, all the
settings set. Now with the store, the
store will need an update. So if you're
planning on using the store, when it
does update itself, all the settings
will be done. As you can see here, when
you come into the settings, they're
already done, ready to go. Now, the
black theme forcing on Windows 10 can be
a little bit too much sometimes,
especially for the immersive control
panel. If that is the case for you, go
to personalization, go to colors, and
just change the
accent color to a dark gray. That'll fix
if things are a little bit too dark for
you in all the menus. And that's Windows
10. All right, guys. That covers
everything. It should get you out of
trouble. If you want to know what's
going on behind the scenes with this
script, follow along with the video.
I'll explain in order what's going on.
Otherwise, you guys should be good to
go. So, for the guys of you that are
still here, appreciate it. What happens
is the script starts off with installing
7zip. This is the best extracting
program there is out there. It is
completely free. Everybody should be
using this. You can do a lot more that
you can't do with just the normal one
that's built into Windows. This is also
required to for me to do certain things
like extract certain things. So, 7zip
gets installed. It'll also do the config
settings for 7-zip. So you have a nice
little clean context menu, extract
files, extract here, and add to archive.
It will also put 7zip cleanly in the
start menu, not in a subfolder. The
script installs display driver
uninstaller. Just puts it in the temp
folder and actually creates a config for
it to make sure when we run it, it
removes absolutely everything. Then also
adds the registry key so to prevent
Windows from downloading updates. So
after we've ddued, Windows doesn't
automatically download the latest
graphics driver through the updates.
Google Chrome gets installed. I chose
Chrome because we need a web browser as
Edge gets uninstalled. So someone's
going to need a web browser. This is the
most popular web browser. It is the most
it's the fastest web browser. So someone
wants to use a different web browser
after they can go ahead and do that. Um
it also pre-installs Ublock Origin
Light, which is great. It predes the
settings run on run in the background
hardware acceleration and memory saver
so you can have Chrome open when you
play your games. You don't have to worry
about chewing up GPU or CPU performance
or memory or anything like that. It also
gets rid of any scheduled updating tasks
for Chrome and completely deletes the
Chrome services. So if you ever want to
update Chrome, you can just download and
do it manually. That way you don't have
Chrome running in the background all the
time constantly updating when you're
doing other things within Windows or
playing games. The script downloads
DirectX and installs it as that is
required for certain programs and games.
This is just in case any game bugs out
and actually doesn't pre-install it
while the game gets installed. That's
really useful. The script makes another
script in the temp folder here called
step one that imports the Windows
security settings and runs display
driver uninstaller. And to do that we
use registry as win loon. Um so it's a
registry create that lets you run um
things in in safe boot. So that's how
that gets that added. So as you can see
here all the security settings were
imported. So if we go here for isolation
and all of these get turned off. Smart
app control gets turned off. All these
get turned off. This will look buggy
because edge is uninstalled. That just
bugs out. It is actually turned off. All
exploit protection settings are
completely turned off. If you play
Valent, you'll need to turn this on.
Firewall notifications are turned off
and everything in Defender is turned off
other than real-time protection. I
thought this was just the best way to go
about it that would make everyone happy.
All the other settings turned off so it
doesn't ruin your performance, but
you've still got real-time protection.
The script also in the safe mode
disables UAC so you run everything as
administrator.
That's more for make your life a little
bit bit easier and save time. And there
was an issue on 23H2
Windows 11 where on Ryzen chips if you
didn't run some games as administrator
you would lose some performance. So this
sort of take care of that and just make
sure you won't have any issues with
anything. You're basically running
everything as administrator. The script
creates another script called step two
which is actually created in the temp
folder and that is run by something
called a registry key called run once.
So, it will only run once after the save
mode is completed. It will start off
with importing the store settings.
All your store settings will get
imported. All this will be turned off.
If you are on a Microsoft account, these
two will be on by default. These are
cloud-based and I don't think they're
worth turning off. I think they should
be left as is. If you're on a local
account, it'll all look off. All the
settings are done in the legacy control
panel. I could go on for days. Um, I'm
not going to show you guys everything,
but all the rubbish is just turned off.
Um, generally for a power user, same
thing for the immersive control panel.
Absolutely everything is turned off for
a power user. I'm not going to show you
guys every individual setting because
we'll be here for days. As you can see,
just all the rubbish is completely
turned off. The script turns off the
background mouse polling rate cap of 125
Hz. I don't believe in that at all. I
prefer the old Windows 10 and beforehand
system. Um, and I like a much more
snappier desktop. There is the argument
to be made with someone with a bad CPU
that that the polling rate cap is
actually a good thing, but generally
from my understanding and from my
testing on higherend hardware or medium
end hardware, you really want the
background polling rate off. And I don't
trust Microsoft when I'm in a game in
full screen to completely unpack it for
that game. I don't trust Microsoft. It
is very buggy. I really believe that we
should be going back to the old system
of just having the polling rate for your
mouse completely uncapped and it is what
it is. It's a much more snappier
experience. One thing I got got to
mention was the Windows Defender
schedule tasks. They're all turned off.
So if you want to do a scan, you can do
it manually. The script disables memory
compression. This should never be used
for a power machine. Now I have seen
this actually turned on on some systems
for some reason. You definitely don't
want to use memory compression. Now I've
turned everything off in here other than
IPv4.
Honestly, no one's using anything than
IPv4. U most of us gamers. So obviously
if you you can't get connected to the
internet, you probably need IPv6. You
might need to turn that back on. All
this rubbish is turned off. Updates get
updates get paused for a year here, but
it probably won't stick knowing
Microsoft. They usually push through
anyway, but at least you won't have to
worry about it at all. And you can come
in here when you want to do that. You
get a little bit more control. Any
network adapter you have, power savings
will be turned off. And if you're on an
Intel or a Realtech LAN, all the power
savings in here will actually be turned
off. like energy efficient Ethernet,
gigabyte light, etc., etc. Any USB
device you have connected at the current
time of running the script, it will find
all the USB hubs and turn off all power
management for everything that is
connected. That was quite a difficult
one to do, but I managed to automate it.
It'll also disable wake if that's on on
any of them as well. Now, I'll admit
there's a lot of things in this wind
sucks guide that are probably legacy
things that don't really do anything
anymore on the latest Windows builds,
but I don't see these things as a bad
thing for a power user, so they all get
done anyway. Notepad settings get
imported as well, so it kind of behaves
like the older Windows Notepad. If you
have C-Pilot reinstalled, the function
for Copilot will be turned off at the
bottom there, too. The script unpins all
taskbar items, as you can see, you start
from a clean slate. And it also it will
give you a really clean sign out menu
that's nice and black as you can see
here. Really nice sign out and lock
screen that's black. The script also
imports more of a cleaner context menu
layout where you don't have really
annoying rightclick context menus. So it
obviously enables the old legacy one
like this. But it gets rid of a whole
bunch of things like
customize this folder, add to favorites,
troubleshoot compatibility, remove open
in terminal, remove scan with defender,
remove give access to, remove including
library, remove share, all the little
annoying things like that. It's sort of
more of a power friendly right-click
context menu. A clean start menu layout
gets imported as you can see here, and
it enables the new start menu. If you're
using an older Windows build, it'll
obviously just be reverting back to the
old start menu. It'll be a clean layout
with none of the bloat. That'll also be
done for Windows 10, too, so you have a
clean layout. It also creates a couple
of shortcuts in here. We've got start
menu shortcuts and one and start menu
shortcuts, too. These are the two menu
locations for all your start menu
shortcuts.
So, everything that you see in your
start menu are in these two folders.
It's really nice to manage because
sometimes programs will put things in a
subfolder and I find that rather
frustrating. It'll also create another
shortcut which is recycling bin. So if
you want to pin that to start or pin to
quick access you can. Unfortunately I
can't actually change this logo as the
recycling bin as there is a bug if I do
that. What it will do is it will
actually change explorer as a recycling
bin in here. So unfortunately I can't
change the icon.
The script completely uninstalls Edge
and gets rid of it. also gets rid of
Edge Web View 32 as Edge Webview 32 on
the newer builds of Windows is
completely baked into everything aka
widgets file explorer start menu this
that and it constantly runs in the
background so it's nice and clean now no
edge no web view 32 the script removes
all UWP bloat other than AV1 video
extension AV encoder video extensions
HIF image extension HVC video extension
MPG G2 video extension, Microsoft Paint,
RAW image extension, VP9 video
extensions, web media extensions, webp
media extensions, Windows photos,
Windows notepad, Windows store, CBS,
which cannot be removed anymore on the
later builder of Windows, otherwise you
break file explorer, and the Nvidia
control panel. So that basically gets
you covered. It removes all the bloat,
but you still have functionality at for
a power user without any of the bloat
and um anything that's needed for
recording or video editing uh is not
removed at all. So, you've got the
functionality of everything and none of
this stuff runs in the background. So,
you'll be fine. If you're curious,
here's what's kind of left as far as
UWP. Now, a bunch of these windows won't
let you remove,
but these is sort of what's left.
You, like I said, you used to be able to
remove CBS, but you can't anymore.
All the rubbish, unneeded, optional
features are removed. So, you're just
sort of left with Notepad and VBS
script. You don't want to remove VBS
script, otherwise you break MSI
installers. So, we leave that. These are
everything. You don't see everything in
that menu. This is absolutely
everything. Only a couple things get
left. VBS script, Wi-Fi and Ethernet
drivers that are baked into Windows. The
language pack that you're currently
using doesn't get removed, but
everything else is removed like
HelloFace, blah blah blah. All that
rubbish is removed.
We just talked about UWP features. These
are legacy features. Everything gets
removed. Um, I do not ask the script to
remove that one because that's needed
for games sometimes and legacy
components. The script used to install
this one and this one, but it added
about 15 minutes of time on top of the
script. So, I'm no longer adding those.
But this one gets left cuz that's needed
for a lot of apps, programs, and games.
This is what it looks like entirely cuz
it doesn't show absolutely everything in
there. And I keep search engine package
as that's needed to search in your start
menu. Everything else is disabled
though. As you can see,
all legacy apps are uninstalled in here
too. Those are things like one drive and
remote desktop connection. And if you're
on a Windows 10 build, it remove the old
Windows snipping tool because you should
be using the new one. It'll also remove
any of those update for Windows 10
64based systems or Microsoft update
health tools which generally get
pre-installed on a Windows 10 build.
Gets rid of all those.
The script will also remove any startup
app at all and completely nuke it off
the face of the earth. Obviously, I've
got VMware tools here. I haven't
pre-installed it because I need to drag
files back and forth from my virtual
machine. You won't see that there. If
you have any apps that need to run on
start, aka Stream Deck or uh you got an
auto interface like a Echo XLR that
needs to run on startup, you may need to
reinstall that software to get it to run
on startup because it might do it with
taskuler.
Or if you wanted to do it this way and
you don't mind it actually popping up
and you having to close it, you could
simply put a shortcut in start menu
programs one or start menu programs 2
for something to run on start. If there
are any apps that you tend to need to
run on boot, you may need to reinstall
them.
The script takes you through the
graphics driver installation process,
debloat the drivers and does everything.
I'll show you that in a second. So this
is a default Nvidia bloat driver
installation. Comes with the Nvidia app.
Lots of Nvidia containers and other
NVIDIA containers. Shadow Play helper
that are always running in the
background. This is what it looks like
here. Comes with Nvidia app, frame view
SDK, graphics driver, HD audio driver,
and physics.
This is what it looks like here in the
immersive control panel. Same same.
These are all the drivers, schedule
tasks, and boot run that it comes with
the bloated app. These are the default
control panels settings. This menu
actually isn't shown.
Nothing's done here. Nothing's done
here. 3D control panel settings are
default.
These are default.
HTCP is on.
And the card will dynamically boost
depending on what it needs to do. Now,
this is Nvidia after running the DB
loader.
Simply just got the driver program here.
Very, very lightweight.
Just the driver, nothing else.
Just the driver and the control panel.
Nothing else.
Simply just have the driver
and the control panel. That's it. This
one is just shell extension. When you
right click the desktop,
this is already enabled. Allow access to
GPU performance counters to all users.
Just something I like to do. It's not
really important at all, but it's useful
to developers, but I like to do it
anyway. puts no scaling and overrides
scaling modes by set by games and
programs automatically for you. If you
do play stretched on GPU scaling, you'll
need to change this one.
Sets physics to your default card.
Technically doesn't matter cuz the
physics isn't installed with the
debloated driver, but yeah, not many
games run physics anymore. All the 3D
control panel settings are done for set
for performance.
Naval developer settings is already on
and we're hiding the taskbar tray so
that this doesn't get in the way. HTCP
is off
and PO state is on. So your card will
always boost to its max all the time.
It's nice thing to do if you're a power
user. Really help if you're playing got
a really good card and playing a CP
bound game. Just getting the most out of
the card all the time. Now bloated AMD
driver comes with a lot of stuff like
crash defender service client it comes
with a lot of rubbish even comes with
the overlays like the radian settings
host service desktop overlay and it is
constantly running in the background
even see look at host service is
constantly pinging 3% GPU usage
ridiculous
the installer just looks like that
surprisingly it doesn't show up with a
whole bunch of other stuff but in your
start menu you get a whole bunch of
other stuff and look at all the drivers
that come with
whole bunch of drivers and services.
Absolutely rubbish.
This is the default control panel in the
default settings. Just quickly show you
through these
and ultra low power saving mode is not
disabled by default
with my script. Wind sucks. You just get
the driver.
That is it. The driver and the control
panel and the service. You don't want to
disable this service because when you
hot plug monitors, you will not get an
image.
Same thing there. It's just really just
one. Now, all we have is the driver and
the control panel service. That is it.
This is the minimal driver that gets
installed. All the settings are done and
imported.
Always off there.
Performance override application setting
off.
Display HTCP support is turned off. I
managed to automate that one. That one
was quite painful. And the preferences
are all off here. So, a really clean
driver. And ultra low power saving mode
gets disabled when you use my Windsack
script. All right. Intel. Before you
debloat the driver, if you just run the
normal driver, this is probably one of
the worer ones. I'm going to be honest
with you. Um, we have a whole bunch of
Intel stuff here, and it installs a
whole bunch of unnecessary stuff. It
even installs present mon. and present
on constantly logs things in the
background um with regardless of whether
you open the control panel or not. I
really don't like that. I've seen that
even cause 3% CPU usage quite often.
It'll be even worse if you've got a
worse CPU. By the way, it installs all
of this Intel computing program software
and drivers support assistant graphics
software one API level zero. That's what
it sort of looks like there. The
immersive control panel and the bloated
driver comes with a whole bunch of
rubbish. We've got a whole bunch of
drivers, services, schedule tasks, and
even log on. Absolutely rubbish. The
default settings, variable refresh rate
is on by default. These are the default
settings.
And telemetry is on. And this is
actually using present one, which is
constantly logging all the time. And
it's never a good idea to log GPU power
in the background. That tends to cause
really bad loads in games. So, it's just
always logging, sitting there doing its
thing. Now, if you run through my wind
sucks to deblo the Intel driver, you
just cleanly have a just that there. If
you do open the control panel, that will
stay until you close it. We have the
control panel um and the the driver that
that's it. Really, really clean. That's
what it looks like. The new UWP control
panel. And this is it here. So, ignore
the Intel serial IO GPIO that comes
through with the Windows updates, but we
just have the driver here and the
graphics
um service. That is it really. The
variable refresh rate um it looked like
it worked. I managed to somehow automate
it. I know I said I didn't before, but
just keep an eye on that one. If you use
an Intel card, come in here and check
it. These settings are done. I
originally wanted to put low latency
mode on plus boost for everything. I had
a lot of people in my Discord who have
inter cards complain about issues uh
with Windows um scheduling. So if they
had Discord open while they were playing
it cause massive issues, things like
that. So we've just decided to leave it
off
and telemetry is off by default. And we
don't have present mon constantly
running in the background logging
things. This is just grabbing this stuff
through I guess Windows normally. I
guess no present mod constantly running
in the background. MSI mode for the
graphics driver will get forced on
whether you have an iGP or dedicated
graphics card. It will or it'll do it
for both regardless if you're on AMD,
Intel, or Nvidia. This is something you
definitely want to run. Some graphics
driver developers forget to turn this on
with their current driver. Um, that's
just something that gets enforced
through the PowerShell script. Uh, I
don't recommend you guys mucking around
with this program, but this is just a
program to show uh MSI mode very easily
rather than going in registry.
Now, the ultimate performance power plan
gets imported, but it gets completely
modified and edited. So, it's
technically not the ultimate performance
power plan anymore. And I also delete
the other power plans because Windows
has a habit of after a month or so
completely changing it on you back to
balanced. Now, if you're a power user,
you want to be using ultimate
performance um with all the changes that
I've made. I'm going to quickly raid
these off, but um if I go to change plan
settings, it won't show absolutely
everything that I have done in this
menu, but I have done a lot. I'll
quickly read some of them off. Disable
hibernate. Disable lock. Disable sleep.
Disable fast boot. Umpark CPU calls.
Disable power throttling. The USB power
savings. As we can see in there, a whole
bunch of stuff. Allow hybrid sleep off.
Allow timers off. Max process power
management on laptops. Do not uh dim the
display. On laptops, no power saving
features, stuff like that. on laptops
for max um laptops or you know whether
you got Intel or um AMD as an example.
ATI graphics power settings ATI power
play settings maximize performance that
that's cranked up. Same with the Intel
one as well. Um yeah, so it's
technically not the ultimate
performance. I've just imported the
Windows one and completely modified it,
but I thought I'd let you guys know
that. The script creates a CS file,
compiles it, and creates a service to
max the timer resolution all the time.
Now, a lot of people get really funny
about timer resolution. The end of the
day, it's just how fast the CPU updates
with Windows. I like to completely max
it. When you open a game, it will be one
anyway. When you if you don't have this
on, when you're mcking around with
things on the desktop, it'll be at its
slowest 15. I like it at 0.5. Now, it
used to boost frames in games 10, 15
years ago. I remember doing it internet
cafes, keeping media player open. A lot
of people go, "Oh, you shouldn't use it.
You shouldn't do this. You shouldn't do
that." I really like it. It does lower
driver latency if you want to go test
that. Even though driver latency is only
in microsconds um but it does create a
much more snappier nicer feeling on the
desktop. It's something I like to do. It
will not help your game. It will not
help your game latency. It will help
driver latency and your desktop
experience to be a little bit more
snappy. Now if you a lot of the time if
you open Chrome or Discord, it will
force 0.5. Anyway, now there is a great
rule change for Windows 11 um where it
will only time a resolution a certain
app. I have reverted back to the Windows
10 and then much old the system going
all the way back Windows 10 and before
where when you max timer resolution it
does it for everything. Now I could
argue with someone about this for days
on timer resolution at the end of the
day it's something I like to do. Now I
don't notice any difference in games at
all but I do really like a snappy
desktop. That's why I run that and there
it's no harm. It's just how quickly
Windows refreshes with the CPU. You max
that all the time. What's wrong with
that? If you're a power user, the script
will rebuild performance counters, run a
disc cleanup. It'll also delete a whole
bunch of rubbish folders
in the C drive, Intel, Inet Pub, which
is part of Defender, stupid perf logs,
Xbox games, Windows old, and dump stack.
Now, play Xbox Game Pass games.
Obviously, this completely removes the
dependencies of Edge. So you get no
edge. It will delete your Xbox game and
your Xbox saves. The great thing about
this script is it completely removes all
the bloat and game bar doesn't run. But
the store still works. If you want to
play Xbox Game Pass games, you just go
back into the store. You redownload the
game. The store redownloads gaming
services dependency, the Xbox
dependencies, redownloads Microsoft
Edge, redownloads web U32. Tested all
this. I was literally playing Adam Fall
the other day. works flawlessly. So,
it's great because if you're worried and
you don't like to use Xbox Game Pass
because it adds a lot of bloat on your
machine, use it, play your game, and
then when you finish playing your game
and you don't want to use Xbox Game Pass
anymore, run through the script again,
and it will get rid of it all, and you
start from a clean state. So, you can
kind of have your cake and eat it too
with this. That is assuming that you
install the Xbox uh game on the C drive.
Obviously, if you install it on another
drive, uh it won't be deleted. But yeah,
sort of like the way that that worked.
Um the script creates a restore point,
but after it's completed everything
because I figured this would just be a
good idea to get you out of trouble. If
you ever in the future download a driver
that causes a blue screen in Windows,
you can at least roll back to a more
stable registry. Um don't rely on this
uh for actually backing up your files or
anything like that. It tends to only
sort of back up registry. So if you have
an issue with driver or something, you
can you can roll back to the restore
point just so you can boot the machine.
Now there's lots of other little bits
and bobs that I haven't mentioned, but
I'll be here for hours and hours and
hours as this optimization wind sucks
has taken me about a month full time to
to complete. So I'm not going to go
absolutely everything. You are more than
welcome to open up Windox and read
because I have commented absolutely
everything. It's not hard for you guys
to use your eyes. Go to files, go to
winds, and just read everything here
with a hash is comments to explain
what's going on. Everything with a
double hash will take you directly to
that link. So, I've tried my best to
link things. So, if you actually copy
this as an example, the C++ packages, I
press Windows key R, I can paste that
directly without the hashes directly,
and it will take me directly there.
That's where it downloads them from.
Windows Store settings. There we go.
Boom. It'll take you right there. So,
that could help you out a lot. Regarding
that, please do not be afraid to read or
modify the file to your liking. If you
don't like some changes that I have
done, if there are any bugs or anything
like that, please get involved with me
in my Discord or on GitHub. Look at
creating a sorry, issues. Get involved
on the Discord. I do have a little bit
more work to do on this to to get it to
work flawlessly with server LTSC and IoT
Enterprise, but that's going to be
fairly easy for me to do. It just
requires a little bit more time. So,
hope you found the video useful, guys.
Um, something I've wanted to achieve in
years and years and years, and I finally
done it to the point where I think I
hate Windows even more after being out
of automated everything. And I actually
want to look at start doing some um
Linux dual dual boot videos and stuff
like that. I've been using a Steam Deck
for a little while now and that has
Steam OS on it which is Linux based and
that thing has been incredible to deal
with compared to Microsoft because
Microsoft is just getting worse and
worse every year. So, just let you guys
know if you ever need to revert
anything. Um I I did have plans to make
a full revert of Win Sucks. Maybe
that'll be in the future, but that's a
lot of work at the moment. I'm going to
be porting all the good changes with the
code uh eventually into the ultimate
optimization guide. And the ultimate
optimization guide will for me for when
when you do want to do things separately
or manual or you want to actually revert
a certain change. Um so sort of as an
example here I say you wanted to get
edge back you know you could just run
edge and edge revert and edge will come
back. So nothing in my um ultimate guide
or the wind sucks guide which the wind
sucks guide is this video is done
forcibly to the point where something
will be broken and you can never get it
working again. That's not how I believe
in doing things at all anymore. And
there is no performance difference
between uh doing something like this,
installing a vanilla Windows um and just
running a script versus a custom ISO or
a playbook which ends up completely
stripping out poor files which you
cannot get back. One day a program or a
game won't work. You won't know why and
you have to reinstall Windows. You're
not going to get that with my stuff at
the end of the day. Anyway guys, take
care. Enjoy the guide. I'll see you guys
in the next one. Bye. If you like your
Windows game, BIOS, hardware, or stream
setup fresh, tuned, and optimized,
support me and book my PC service. All
links can be found in the description
below. Or just checkling tree.